Well, we're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We finally got
a piece of the pie
Fish don't fry
in the kitchen
Beans don't burn
on the grill
Took a whole lot of tryin'
Just to get up that hill
Now we're up
in the big leagues
Gettin' our turn at bat
As long as we live
It's you and me, baby
There ain't nothin'
wrong with that
Well, we're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We finally got
a piece of the pie
Morning
Like the day
is dawning...
GEORGE: Hey, hey, hey!
How's my foxy tomato
this morning?
Well, if you squeeze
any harder,
your tomato's gonna
turn into ketchup.
Where's Lionel?
We can't have him
being late his first
day at work.
He's getting dressed.
George, I've been wondering.
Do you think
he'll be able
to handle it?
Sure he can. He's been
getting dressed for years.
I mean, studying
for his master's degree
and working at the same time.
Don't worry about Lionel.
He can handle anything.
He's my son.
And mine!
Yeah, but he overcame
that part.
What are you fixing
for his breakfast?
His favorite dish.
Food.
Look what I got
for him.
His own desk plate.
"Lionel Jefferson, engineer."
Oh, that's nice, George.
But isn't it ostentatious?
No, it's real brass.
What made you think
about getting him this?
Well, I got it
for two reasons.
One, he's the first Jefferson
ever to become an engineer,
and two, with a sign
like this on his desk,
them honkies will know
he wasn't hired
to shine shoes.
Morning, Mom.
Morning, Pop.
Good morning, Lionel.
Morning, my son.
What?
Don't you notice
anything different
about the table?
No.
The sign, the sign!
Oh, the sign!
Hey, I don't need that, Pop.
I already know where
to sit for breakfast.
Hey, man, I was just
putting you on!
Hey, Pop, you know,
I really appreciate this.
It's terrific.
And I'm gonna use it too.
Are you excited about
starting work today?
Why should I be?
It's just a job.
But aren't you nervous?
What kind of work
will you be doing?
At $18,000 a year,
he'll do whatever
they tell him.
Well, um, I'll be working
with digital circuitry,
integrated bypass systems,
analytical frequencies
and remote resistance factors.
They ain't paying you enough.
Sure they are!
Teletex Electronics
is a great company.
He's lucky to get a job there.
When I was his age,
I was lucky to find
a job anyplace.
I even worked in a
smelly old fish market.
I hated that.
They really worked
you hard, huh, Pop?
The hardest part
was after work.
I had to run all the way home
to keep the alley cats
from eating my pants.
Well, I gotta go now.
But you haven't
eaten anything!
Are you sure
you'll be all right?
Hey,
I'll be fine, Mom.
You just take it easy.
You want me
to call you a cab?
You don't wanna be late.
Bosses hate that.
I know because
I'm a boss.
Hey, Pop,
I got plenty
of time.
Now, you be sure
and have a nice,
hot lunch.
Uh-huh.
And, um, if it rains,
I'll be sure
to wear my rubbers
and I'll pin a little
nametag on my chest
just in case I get lost.
Oh, Lionel,
I didn't mean it...
Hey, Mom, now, look.
I'm just a dude
going off to work.
No big thing.
Oh!
Hi, Jenny.
Oh! Oh, Lionel,
I'm so happy for you!
Oh. Well,
what was that for?
For your first day
at work.
Oh!
Well, wives are supposed
to kiss their husbands
goodbye at their door,
but since we're
not married yet,
I had to come downstairs
to your door.
Well, uh, thanks, Jenny,
but, you know, you really
didn't have to get up so early
just for a little
thing like that.
Well, see you
all later!
Is he feeling
all right? I mean,
he's so calm.
He takes after me.
We don't believe
in getting emotional
over things.
All right, I got me a job!
A job, yeah!
Isn't he wonderful?
Yeah.
Well, nice seeing
you again, Jenny. Bye.
George!
There's just one thing,
Mr. Jefferson.
My father would like
to invite the three of
you to dinner tonight.
Oh, that's nice!
That's out.
Why?
Because I've got
a photographer coming
over to take our picture.
Oh, what sort
of picture?
A family portrait.
We haven't had one taken
since Lionel was 12.
Oh, yeah!
I remember that one.
Lionel kept getting
too close to the camera.
His head looked like
a great big old watermelon.
That's because
you squeezed
all three of us
into that little photo
booth on Coney Island.
So now we got us
a real photographer,
we can't go to dinner.
But, George,
the photographer
will be here at 6:00.
We could go after that.
Will you just mind
your business?
Tell your father
we'd love to go, Jenny.
All right!
Thank you so much.
You don't know
what this means to me.
But you shouldn't
be thanking us!
We should be
thanking you!
No, Mrs. Jefferson,
believe me, I should
be thanking you.
Mom is away
visiting her parents,
and after three days
of my cooking,
I deserve something
decent to eat.
Bye!
Yes?
Good! Send him in.
Hello... Lionel!
How are you?
I'm Bill Hoffman,
Director of Personnel.
Nice to meet you, sir.
Oh, you don't have
to call me "sir."
Oh, fine!
"Your majesty" will do.
"Your majesty?"
It's just one
of my little jokes.
I like to put people
at their ease
with a little joke.
I expect you're a bundle
of nerves right now, huh?
No, not really.
Yes, I thought so.
Nothing to be ashamed about.
Almost everybody is
when they first come in.
Then I tell my little joke
to put them at their ease.
Ah, that's a good idea!
Thank you!
Why don't you sit down.
Thanks.
Yes, here at
Teletex Electronics
we try to avoid the stiff,
impersonal image
so many businesses have.
Great!
We feel we've created
a relaxed working
atmosphere here.
No stress,
no pressure.
Would you like a Tums?
No, thank you.
I've been going
over your record.
I want to tell you,
I'm quite impressed.
That's nice to know.
And it's important
to give a good impression.
Rich Little
would do well here.
Impression. Rich Little.
This is a package
we give all our
new employees.
We really take care
of you here, you know.
It has all the
information about such
things as credit union,
pension fund,
group health insurance.
It covers you
and your family.
Are you married,
by the way?
No, I'm single.
Any children?
What?
Oh, I get it! That's one
of your little jokes, huh?
No, that's one
of the little questions
I have to ask you.
No children.
Good.
Yes? Fine. He can
come in now.
Our Mr. Tulley
is going to go over
the personal history
form you filled out.
Why, did I leave
something out?
No, no, no,
don't be nervous.
It's standard procedure.
Just the final part
of your processing.
Morning!
Ah, Tulley.
This is Lionel Jefferson.
He's gonna be working
on the third floor.
Lionel,
Roger Tulley.
Hi.
Good morning,
Mr. Jefferson.
Well, I have got
a meeting to go to, Lionel,
so if I don't
see you again today,
welcome to the world
of Teletex Electronics.
Thanks, Mr. Hoffman.
I want you to remember
the door to my office
is always open.
If it isn't,
just knock.
Mmm, well,
that's nice to hear.
And if I don't answer,
go away, because it means
I'm in here with my secretary.
Good luck!
He seems like
a real nice guy.
Who?
Mr. Hoffman.
He has a good
personality rating.
Would you mind taking off
your jacket, Mr. Jefferson?
What?
Your jacket.
You'll have
to take it off.
Sit right here, please.
Lift your arms, please.
Thank you.
Um, I believe
my personal history form
is in that file
on Mr. Hoffman's desk.
How do you know that?
Did you peek?
Well, no, it's just that
he was just reading
from it and...
What's this?
A polygraph.
You mean a lie detector?
We prefer to give it
its correct name.
Polygraph.
What are you
going to do with it?
Oh, now,
just relax
and try to answer
the questions
as best you can.
What kind
of questions?
Oh, nothing difficult
and nothing for you
to worry about.
We just want to verify
the information you gave us
on your personal
history form.
Well, why do you have
to verify anything
when I've just...
Oh, now, just relax.
Relax.
Is everything all right
for you, Mr. Prescott?
Oh, splendid, splendid!
You know, you have
a charming apartment here.
Thank you.
And you and Mr. Jefferson
are such charming people too.
Didn't Lionel get home
from work yet?
No, not yet.
Oh, maybe he's staying
late to give his boss
some good advice.
It's nice to see people
so proud of their son.
It's a pity there aren't
more folks like you
in the world, Mr. Jefferson.
I know.
Why don't we take a shot
of the two of you
before he gets here?
Oh, that will
be nice, George.
Splendid, splendid.
Now, Mr. Jefferson,
why don't you put
your arm around
your wife, like this.
I know how.
I thought we'd take
some pictures in color
and some in black-and-white.
Which, in this case,
would be the same thing.
Hey, Lionel,
you're just in time.
Come on, stand over here.
This is my son Lionel
I was telling you about.
Hi.
What a fine-looking
young man.
We're having
our picture taken
in your honor.
Pictures?
Did you have
to work late?
No, Mom.
Now, everybody look over here.
Now, when I count
to three, I want you
all to say, "Cheese."
All right?
One...
How's the job going,
Lionel?
Two...
I don't have
a job anymore.
Three.
Jeez!
What do you mean,
you don't have
a job anymore?
Just what
I said, Pop.
But you just started.
What happened?
Did you talk back
to your boss?
No, Pop.
Stay too long
in the men's room?
Pop, what happened was...
Did they suddenly
notice you're black?
No!
Mr. Jefferson, please!
Give the boy
a chance.
What happened, son?
Well, you see...
Will you keep your
hands off everybody?
He ain't your son,
he's my son.
He's going to tell me.
Now, what happened?
I keep telling you
he's my son too.
I know that.
I just said he
wasn't his son.
Well, I want to hear
what happened,
but Lionel can't talk
unless you shut up.
Okay,
I'm shutting up.
Lionel, tell us
why they fired you.
They didn't fire me, Mom.
I walked out on them.
What? You walked out
on a great job like that?
I thought you said
you were going to shut up.
Go ahead, Lionel.
The first thing they
did was sit me down
to take a lie detector test.
A lie detector test?
Why?
They think you
stole something?
No, they make
everybody take one.
Maybe you'd
like to wait on
these pictures.
Why?
Well, you have this
problem and I...
I was talking
to Lionel.
Why do they make everybody
take a lie detector test?
Well, they say they
just want to verify
a few things about
their background.
So, what happened?
You fail the test?
No, I told them what
they could do with their
test and then I walked out.
Why?
Well, because I
answered every question
on that application.
If they don't
believe me,
the hell with them!
Who said they
didn't believe you?
Pop, the minute
they hooked me up
to that machine
they were saying
they didn't believe me.
You gave up an
$18,000-a-year
job just for that?
Yeah, because nobody's
going to strap a bunch
of electrodes on me
just to make sure
I ain't lying.
It stinks!
You've got a very
bright son there.
He ain't my son.
That's her son talking.
And I'm proud of him.
He was standing up
for his principles.
You see, Mr. Jefferson.
Your wife agrees with me.
What are you
doing here anyway?
Waiting to take a picture.
There ain't gonna be
no pictures taken.
Pack up your stuff
and go home.
Well, back to Bar Mitzvahs.
Okay, Lionel, now, this
is what it's going to be,
no "ifs, ands or buts".
You're gonna go back there
tomorrow morning,
say you're sorry,
and take the test.
I can't.
Why not?
Pop, I just can't.
Lionel, come in
the kitchen a minute.
I want to talk to you.
Why can't you talk
in front of me?
Because this ain't
for your ears to hear.
At a time like this,
a person's got
to talk to a man.
You're right.
And you be sure
to listen to Lionel.
Maybe you can
learn something.
Would you
get out of here!
Sit down, Lionel.
Come on, son. Relax.
You don't have
anything to worry about.
You're among friends now.
What is it, Pop?
Okay, Lionel.
You know I'm your father,
and you know I love you.
You know there's nothing
I wouldn't do for you.
Whatever you say to me now
ain't gonna go outside
of these four walls,
not to your mother,
not to your girl,
not to nobody.
You can trust me.
I know that, Pop.
What are you trying to hide?
What?
What are you afraid
might come out on that test?
Nothing!
Come on, Lionel.
You don't have
to be ashamed.
Everybody's got
something to hide, even me.
You? Well, what have
you got to hide?
Never mind that,
I'm talking about you.
Now, what is this big secret
that you're keeping from us?
I mean did you get
busted or something?
No.
Okay, Lionel, you went
out with a lot of girls
before you took up
with Jenny, didn't you?
Well, sure.
Are there any little
Lionel's running around?
Hey, Pop! Now, that's
a terrible thing to say.
Why? Some of the biggest
people are doing it.
Congressmen, senators.
Some of them got whole
families on the side.
Now, look, Pop,
for the last time, I'm not
trying to hide anything.
Then take the test!
No. No! No!
Lionel...
You still here?
Lionel, I'm your father.
All that talking
and he still
doesn't know that?
Hi, honey.
Here you are, Lionel.
And congratulations!
That's just like you, Willis.
Always saying the wrong thing.
I beg your pardon?
Hey, Jenny,
come on in.
Oh, we're just
in time for pictures.
There's not going
to be any pictures.
Mr. Prescott's leaving.
Something George said?
Well, what's
happening here?
You look like you
just lost your best friend.
Worse than that.
He just lost his best job.
How could he?
He wasn't there long enough
to make a mistake.
Honey, you lost
your job?
Yeah. They wanted
me to take a lie
detector test,
so I said no.
And you walked out
just like that?
I thought that job
meant so much to you.
Not as much as
my right to privacy.
You want privacy?
Lock yourself in the toilet.
All right, now listen,
Mr. Jefferson.
That job means a lot
to both of us,
but if Lionel feels
this strongly about it,
I respect his feelings
and so should you.
Bravo, young lady.
I agree with you.
Prescott!
Yeah, I know.
Shut up and get out.
Can they really force you
to take a test like that?
Yeah. Is it legal?
It is in most states,
unfortunately.
Thousands of companies
around the country use them.
What kind of questions
do they ask?
Oh, they can ask
you anything.
Questions about your past,
your personal lifestyle.
Do they ask you how a kid
could make it all the way
through college
and still come out stupid?
Pop, try to understand.
I don't want people
probing into my mind
and digging into
my innermost feelings.
I don't want to share
that with anybody.
Not even with me?
Hey, with you, anything.
PRESCOTT: Oh, don't...
Don't, don't stop doing that!
This picture I'll give
you for nothing.
But you're missing
a great picture.
Well, George, uh, shall we
open the champagne?
What for?
To drink it.
Oh, come on, George.
Look on the bright side.
Things aren't all black.
What's so great
about that?
Don't be down
on Lionel, George.
It took a lot of courage
to do what he did.
Courage don't buy groceries.
They want cash.
Good evening.
Is Lionel Jefferson
at home?
Yeah. Who are you?
I'm Bill Hoffman,
Personnel Director
for Teletex Electronics.
Oh! Oh! Pleased to meet you.
I'm Lionel's father.
Come on in. Come on in.
Lionel, look who's here.
What are you doing here?
I was hoping
I could talk to you
for a minute, Lionel.
Or for two minutes,
if you've got the time.
Sure he's got
the time.
Meet my wife,
Louise.
How do you do?
Hello.
And these are, uh...
Oh, it don't matter
who they are.
My father's a great
kidder, Mr. Hoffman,
just like you are.
Oh?
And just as funny.
Oh, as good as that, huh?
This is my fiancee,
Jenny Willis.
Hello.
And her father.
Tom Willis.
Hello.
Lionel, I heard
what happened
down at work today.
It's a good thing
Tulley didn't take
your advice
about what he could do
with his polygraph.
Sometimes my son
shoots his mouth off
without thinking.
It runs in the family.
If there was
a problem, Lionel,
why didn't you come
and talk to me about it?
Well, I just didn't think
it would do much good.
That's where you're wrong.
We'd still like to have
you at Teletex.
You hear that,
Lionel? You got
your job back.
Does that mean I still
don't have to take
the lie detector test?
That polygraph test
is a harmless
little procedure.
Forget it.
Lionel,
are you crazy?
Lionel, if it were
up to me,
I'd say never mind
the test.
But my boss
insists on it,
and I've got
to follow orders.
Well, would you
jump out of a window
because your boss
ordered you to?
Depends on how big a bonus
he'd give me to do it.
You walked right
into that one.
You see, Lionel,
he's not asking you
to jump out of a window.
He's just asking you
to take a simple test.
It is such a simple thing.
What harm can it do?
Plenty!
Now look, it's bad enough
that you investigate me,
ask my friends all sorts of
personal questions about me.
But when you want to
hook me up to a machine
to dig into my head
to find out what
makes me tick,
that's going too far.
Lionel, we've got to know...
You have no right to
know that much about me!
You're not buying me,
you're only hiring me.
What's he
talking about?
He's trying to tell you
he's not ready for
big brother yet.
Lionel, please reconsider.
As a favor to me.
A favor? A favor?
Wait a minute.
Lionel, he's not here
to save your job.
He's here to save his.
Say what?
Yeah.
Mom's right.
Teletex Electronics
hired me for three reasons.
I'm young, I'm a college
graduate and I'm black.
That's not true.
We'd have hired you
even if you weren't young.
Come on, Hoffman, you know
what he's talking about.
Well, we do feel a
responsibility to give
minorities a chance.
You mean the only
reason you're here is
because Lionel's black?
No. I was going over
his file again...
More investigating?
He's got one of
the best records
I've ever come across.
I'm here because I think
you're gonna make
a damn good engineer.
This isn't another one
of your little jokes, is it?
No. I mean that.
Thanks.
I mean something else too.
I want you to start
work in the morning.
Okay!
Good!
Hey, wait a minute.
What about that
lie detector test?
Forget it.
But I thought your boss
said everybody had to
take a lie detector test?
That's right.
What'll you tell him
when he asks
if Lionel took one?
I'll lie.
Would somebody open
the door for me, please?
Where are you going?
I'm leaving.
Leaving?
I thought you were
here to take our picture.
Yes, but...
Then why aren't you
taking our picture?
And make it quick.
We're taking the
Willis's out to dinner.
Now, wait a minute, George.
Dinner is our treat.
That's right, Mr. Jefferson.
We invited you, remember?
It's no use, Jenny.
When George wants to pay
for something, he pays for it.
Me? I'm not paying.
But you said...
Lionel is!
Me?
Sure. You got a job
now, don't you?
And you don't even
have to take the test.
I know.
But what about
all the poor guys
who still have to?
Right.
I just hope they got fathers
as understanding as I am.
LOUISE: The Jeffersons was
recorded on tape in front of
a studio audience.